# What is Solid? 

Solid is a catalyst to create initiatives for building a fair web. 

These initiatives can be: 
- Starting new technical standards or entering existing standards processes to ensure interoperability and privacy
- Tools for users to identify which services are in line with the Solid values 
- Building services that are essential to deliver the Solid values and do not yet exist in the market 
- Providing forums to have conversations about recent developments and how to make sure they align with Solid values 

Solid is led by Sir Tim Berners-Lee, inventor of the World Wide Web, and originated at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT). It is a non-commercial, open source collaboration between thousands of expert contributors from around the world.

Solid is user centric rather than solution centric. Users can be anything from a person, to a company, to a government.

Data generated by users while using services such as applications or data storage is associated to the user rather than to the service. Solid allows users to decide the conditions of data usage such as: where data resides, who can access user data, for what purpose, when, and for how long. Users data preferences are given priority over the service providers data preferences. For example, Solid applications allow users to securely move to other applications at will and take their user data with them. 

Solid separates user identification from data storage from data usage: 

1.	Login: Solid identification online is designed so that it is independent from parties that could access who users are interacting with
2.	Pods: Solid data storage is designed so that data is stored safely by the user independently of how that data is used in a recyclable reusable manor 
3.	Apps: Solid applications have granular access to user data meaning they only get a specific type of data necessary to deliver the service provided
